[Python] list methods. code format and proofread (#2877)
exercism/v3: languages/python/concepts/list-methods/about.md

Python allows you to manipulate a [`list`][list] in a lot of ways. A `list` is simple a collection of objects of [type `List`][list std type]. They are mutable, ordered and indexed. Let's look at the methods that are available to manipulate a `list` object.

When you manipulate a list with a list-method, you are changing the properties of the list you pass. That is, **you will alter the list** object that is being used with the list-method. If you do not want to change the original list, you need to copy the list and then work on the copied list.

To begin, you first need a `list` object to use the functions.

```python
>>> empty_list = list() # (or) empty_list = []
>>> empty_list
[]
```

> ## Add an Item to the List

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Adding Items to the List
```

> Topics to discuss:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Methods for adding items:
```

> 1. `append`
> 2. `insert`
> 3. `extend`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `list.append()`
2. `list.insert()`
3. `list.extend()`
```

> If you want to add an item to an existing list, you use the list-method `append()` for it. As the name represent, it appends the item to the **end** of the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to add an item to the right-hand side of an existing list, you use the list-method `append()` for it. As the name indicates, `append()` attaches the item at the **end** of the list.
```

```python
>>> numbers = [1, 2, 3]
>>> numbers.append(9)
>>> numbers
[1, 2, 3, 9]
```

> There is another way to add an item to the list. `insert()` method also gives you the ability to add the item to a particular index in the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rather than appending, the `insert()` method gives you the ability to add the item to a _particular index_ in the list.
```

`insert` takes 2 parameters.

1. index at which you want to add the item

> 2. item

Reviewer: `.insert()` takes 2 parameters:

1. index of the item _before which_ you want the new item to appear
2. the item to be inserted

> Note: if the index is 0, the item will be added to the first of the list. if the index is more than or equal to the length of the list, then item will be added to the last of the list (like the append function)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: if the given index is 0, the item will be added to front (_left-hand side_) of the list. If the supplied index is greater than or equal to the length of the list, the item will be added in the last position, and is the equivalent of using the `append()` method.
```

```python
>>> numbers = [1, 2, 3]
>>> numbers.insert(0, -2)
>>> numbers
[-2, 1, 2, 3]
>>> numbers.insert(1, 0)
>>> numbers
[-2, 0, 1, 2, 3]
```

> If you have another list object who's content you need to be copied to your list, then you can use the `extend` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have an iterable that you would like to _combine_ with your current list (concatenating the two), you can use the `list.extend()` method. `extend()` will unpack the supplied iterable and add its elements in order to your list (_using `.append()` in this circumstance would add the entire iterable as a **single element**._).

```

> The extend function takes an iterable as its parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The extend method takes an iterable as its parameter:
```

```python
>>> numbers = [1, 2, 3]
>>> other_numbers = [5, 6, 7]

>>> numbers.extend(other_numbers)
>>> numbers
[1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7]

>>> numbers.extend([8, 9])
>>> numbers
[1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]
```

# Removing Items from the list

> Topics to discuss:
> 
> 1. `remove`
> 2. `pop`
> 3. `clear`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Methods for removing items:

1. `list.remove()`
2. `list.pop()`
3. `list.clear()`
```

> If you want to remove an item from a list, you can use the `remove` function which takes one parameter. Feed the function with the item you want to remove from the list. the `remove` function will throw a `ValueError` if the item does not exist in the loop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to delete an item from the list, you can use the `list.remove()` method, passing the item to be removed as an argument. `remove()` will throw a `ValueError` if the item is not present in the list.

```

```python
>>> numbers = [1, 2, 3]
>>> numbers.remove(2)
>>> numbers
[1, 3]
>>> numbers.remove(0)
ValueError: list.remove(x): x not in list
```

> There is another way to remove an item from the list. If you don't specify any parameter, the function will remove the last element and returns it to you. Pop takes one optional parameter, the index of the item you want to remove and returns it to you. If you specify an index greater than the length of the list, you will get an `IndexError`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, using the `list.pop()` method will both remove **and** `return` an element for use. `pop()` takes 1 parameter -- the index of the item you need to remove and receive. If you specify an index number higher than the length of the list, you will get an `IndexError`. If an index is not specified, the last element of the list will be removed and returned to you.
```

```python
>>> numbers = [1, 2, 3]
>>> numbers.pop()
3
>>> numbers
[1, 2]
>>> numbers.pop(0)
1
>>> numbers
[2]
```

> If you want to clear the list (ie: all the items in the list), then you can use the `clear` function. It does not take any parameter as input but will remove all the elements in the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you'd like to remove all the items from the list you can use the `list.clear()` method. It does not take any parameters.
```

```python
>>> numbers = [1, 2, 3]
>>> numbers.clear()
>>> numbers
[]
```

> ## Reverse the list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reversing and reordering
```

> The items in the list can be reordered in the reverse order with the `reverse` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Items in the list can be reordered in reverse with the `list.reverse()` method.
```

```python
>>> numbers = [1, 2, 3]
>>> numbers.reverse()
>>> numbers
[3, 2, 1]
```

> ## Sort the list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> When you have an unordered list of items, you can sort them with the help of `sort` function. If you have items that are alphanumerical, you can use `sort` without any arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A list can be re-ordered _**in place**_ with the help of the `list.sort()` method. Internally, python uses [`Timsort`][timsort] to arrange the list.  The default order is _ascending_.

If the elements are alphanumerical, you don't have to provide any arguments. Optionally, you can define a custom key for sorting criteria. The Python docs offer some [additional tips and techniques for sorting][sorting how to] lists effectively.
```

If you have a list of names and you want to sort them:

```python
>>> names = ["Tony", "Natasha", "Thor", "Bruce"]
>>> names.sort()
>>> names
["Bruce", "Natasha", "Thor", "Tony"]
```

> If you want the sort to be in descending order, you can use the reverse parameter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want the sort to be in descending order, you can use the _reverse_ argument:
```

```python
>>> names = ["Tony", "Natasha", "Thor", "Bruce"]
>>> names.sort(reverse=True)
>>> names
["Tony", "Thor", "Natasha", "Bruce"]
```

> If you have a list of items that are complex, you can use the key parameter in the sort. Lets see more about this later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Internally, python uses [`Timsort`][timsort] to sort the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Occurrences of an item in the list

> You can find the occurrences of an element in the list with the help of the `count` function. It takes one parameter which will be the item, for which you need to find the number of occurrences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the occurrences of an element in the list with the help of `list.count()`. It takes the item you need to tally as its argument and returns the total number of times it appears on the list.
```

```python
>>> items = [1, 4, 7, 8, 2, 9, 2, 1, 1, 0, 4, 3]
>>> items.count(1)
3
```

> ## Find the index of the item

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Finding the index of items
```

> If you want to find the index of an item you want in the list, you can use the `index` function. If you have multiple occurrences of the same item, it will provide you the index of the first occurrence. If you do not have any occurrences of the item, then you will have a `ValueError` raised. The index is zero-based, meaning the first item is at the position 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `list.index()` method will give you the index number of the _first occurrence_ of an item you pass in. If there are no occurrences of the item, a `ValueError` is raised. If you do not need and exact position of an item and are only checking that it is present on the list, the built-in `in` operator is more efficient.

Indexing starts at 0.
```

```python
>>> items = [7, 4, 1, 0, 2, 5]
>>> items.index(4)
1
>>> items.index(10)
ValueError: 10 is not in list
```

> You can also provide a start (and an end) to the index from where you need the search has to happen for the item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can provide start and end indices to search within a specific section of the list.
```

```python
>>> names = ["Tina", "Leo", "Thomas", "Tina", "Emily", "Justin"]
>>> names.index("Tina")
0
>>> names.index("Tina", 2, 5)
3
```

> ## Copy a List

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Making copies
```

> Lists are collections of items which are referenced by an index. Therefor, if you do re-assign a list object to another variable, any change you do to the new variable will also impact the original variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember that _names_ (variables) in Python are labels that point to underlying objects. This creates a few surprises when working with lists.  

Lists are _collections_ of object references ordered by an index. If you assign a list object to a new variable name, any change you make to the list using the _new_ variable name will _also impact_ the original variable name -- both names point to the **same list object**.
```

```python
>>> actual_names = ["Tony", "Natasha", "Thor", "Bruce"]

> >>> same_list = actual_names

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# assigning a second name *does not copy* the references in the list.
>>> same_list = actual_names
```

> >>> same_list.append("Clarke")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# using either name will mutate the *common* list -- both names point to the same object
>>> same_list.append("Clarke")
```

>>> same_list
["Tony", "Natasha", "Thor", "Bruce", "Clarke"]
>>> actual_names
["Tony", "Natasha", "Thor", "Bruce", "Clarke"]
```

> You need to use the `copy` function in order to do a `shallow_copy` of the list. (More about `shallow_copy` and `deep_copy` later.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid this issue,  use the `list.copy()` method to make a `shallow_copy` of the list. `copy()` will create a new list object, but will not create new objects for the list items. (More about the differences between a  `shallow_copy` and  a `deep_copy` later.)
```

```python
>>> names = ["Tony", "Natasha", "Thor", "Bruce"]

> >>> new_list = names.copy()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# this will create a new list object that can be mutated separately 
>>> new_list = names.copy()
```

> >>> new_list.append("Clarke")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# this append() action will now only affect the new_list
>>> new_list.append("Clarke")
```

>>> new_list
["Tony", "Natasha", "Thor", "Bruce", "Clarke"]
>>> names
["Tony", "Natasha", "Thor", "Bruce"]
```

> To create a second copy of a list, you need to _slice_ or explicitly use the `.copy()` method, which will make a second set of references that can then be changed without the danger of unintentional mutation of elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Slicing_ will also make a second set of references that can then be changed without the danger of unintentional mutation of elements:
```

```python
>>> names = ["Tony", "Natasha", "Thor", "Bruce"]

> >>> new_list = names.copy()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>>> new_list = names[:]
```

>>> new_list.append("Clarke")
>>> new_list
["Tony", "Natasha", "Thor", "Bruce", "Clarke"]
>>> names
["Tony", "Natasha", "Thor", "Bruce"]
```

> This reference limitation becomes exacerbated with operating on nested/multiplied lists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Referencing challenges become exacerbated when operating on nested/multiplied lists.
```

> This reference limitation becomes exacerbated with operating on nested/multiplied lists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This reference challenge becomes exacerbated when working with nested/multiplied lists:
```

```python
from pprint import pprint

# This will produce a game grid that is 8x8, pre-populated with zeros
>>> game_grid = [[0]*8] *8

>>> pprint(game_grid)
[[0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]]

> # Let's put an x in the bottom right corner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# an attempt to put an x in the bottom right corner
```

>>> game_grid[7][7] = "X"

> # That doesn't work, because all the rows are referencing the same underlying list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# the attempt fails because all the rows are referencing the same underlying list object.
```

> This reference limitation becomes exacerbated with operating on nested/multiplied lists.
> 
> ```python
> from pprint import pprint
> 
> # This will produce a game grid that is 8x8, pre-populated with zeros
> >>> game_grid = [[0]*8] *8
> 
> >>> pprint(game_grid)
> [[0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
>  [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
>  [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
>  [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
>  [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
>  [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
>  [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
>  [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]]
> 
> # Let's put an x in the bottom right corner
> >>> game_grid[7][7] = "X"
> 
> # That doesn't work, because all the rows are referencing the same underlying list
> >>> pprint(game_grid)
> [[0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 'X'],
>  [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 'X'],
>  [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 'X'],
>  [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 'X'],
>  [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 'X'],
>  [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 'X'],
>  [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 'X'],
>  [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 'X']]
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> However, if your list contains _variables_ or nested data structures, those second-level references will **not be copied** (_To copy an entire tree of containers, references, and objects, you need to use `.deep_copy()` or a `list comprehension`-- more on that later._). For a detailed explanation of list behavior, see this excellent [making a game board][making a game board] article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned earlier, if your list contains _variables_ or nested data structures, those second-level references will **not be copied** via `copy()` or slice (_To copy an entire tree of containers, references, and objects, you need to use `copy.deep_copy()` or a `list comprehension`-- more on that later._). For a detailed explanation of list behavior, see this excellent [making a game board][making a game board] article.
```

```python
from pprint import pprint

# This loop will safely produce a game grid that is 8x8, pre-populated with zeros
>>> game_grid = []
>>> filled_row = [0] * 8
>>> for row in range(8):

> ...    game_grid.append(filled_row.copy())

Reviewer: ```suggestion
...    game_grid.append(filled_row.copy())  # you can also use filled_row[:] here
```

>>> pprint(game_grid)
[[0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]]

> # Let's put an x in the bottom right corner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# an attempt to put an x in the bottom right corner
```

>>> game_grid[7][7] = "X"

> # Now, the game grid works the way we expect it to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# the game grid now works the way we expect it to
```

>>> pprint(game_grid)
[[0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
 [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 'X']]
```

[list]: https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#more-on-lists
[list std type]: https://docs.python.org/3.9/library/stdtypes.html#list
[timsort]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timsort

> [making a game board]: https://nedbatchelder.com/blog/201308/names_and_values_making_a_game_board.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[making a game board]: https://nedbatchelder.com/blog/201308/names_and_values_making_a_game_board.html
[sorting how to]: https://docs.python.org/3/howto/sorting.html
```
